Adding information about the decoding attribute (#27166)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/html/element/img/index.md

- `decoding`

>   - : In theory, this attribute provides a hint to the browser as to whether it should perform image decoding along with rendering the other DOM content in a single presentation step that looks more "correct" (`sync`), or render and present the other DOM content first and then decode the image and present it later (`async`). In practice, `async` means that the next paint does not wait for the image to decode. It does not make decoding happen off the main thread; modern browsers do this anyway.
> 
>     In reality, using `decoding` on static `<img>` elements is often not very useful. It is likely that they'll be initially rendered as empty images while the image files are fetched (either from the network or from the cache) and then handled independently anyway. As a result, it is often almost impossible to notice differences in these settings. `decoding` is somewhat more useful when dynamically inserting `<img>` elements into the DOM via JavaScript — see {{domxref("HTMLImageElement.decoding")}}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - : This attribute provides a hint to the browser as to whether it should perform image decoding along with rendering the other DOM content in a single presentation step that looks more "correct" (`sync`), or render and present the other DOM content first and then decode the image and present it later (`async`). In practice, `async` means that the next paint does not wait for the image to decode.

    It is often difficult to perceive differences in using `decoding` on static `<img>` elements. It is likely that they'll be initially rendered as empty images while the image files are fetched (either from the network or from the cache) and then handled independently anyway, so the "syncing" of content updates is less apparent. However, the blocking of rendering while decoding happens, while often quite small, can be measured—even if it is difficult to observe with the human eye. Using different `decoding` types can result in more noticeable differences when dynamically inserting `<img>` elements into the DOM via JavaScript — see {{domxref("HTMLImageElement.decoding")}}.
```

>     In reality, `decoding` is not very useful. The decode time will be so small for most images — and it's rare for the image paint to be ready in the exact same frame and therefore be waiting for the image decode — that in most situations you won't notice any difference. You might notice a difference if you have very large images embedded in a page — setting `decoding="async"` may stop text content rendering from being held up by image decoding, with a tradeoff that you might experience flashes of unpainted content. However, embedding very large images is not recommended, and would cause more problems than `decode` would solve.

Reviewer: It's probably incorrect to say decoding times are small. That may not be the case on very slow devices. Let's concentrate instead that it happens at a different presentation time.

```suggestion
    In reality, using `decoding` on static `<img>` elements is often not very useful. For `<img>` elements, the image will likely be initially rendered as an empty image while it is fetched (from the network or from the cache), and then handled independently anyway. Therefore it is often almost impossible to notice differences in these settings. It is perhaps more useful `<img>` elements inserted via the JavaScript API.
```

Can you link JavaScript API text?

- `decoding`

  - : This attribute provides a hint to the browser as to whether it should perform image decoding along with rendering the other DOM content in a single presentation step that looks more "correct" (`sync`), or render and present the other DOM content first and then decode the image and present it later (`async`). In practice, `async` means that the next paint does not wait for the image to decode.

>     It is often difficult to perceive any noticeable effect when using `decoding` on static `<img>` elements. They'll likely be initially rendered as empty images while the image files are fetched (either from the network or from the cache) and then handled independently anyway, so the "syncing" of content updates is less apparent. However, the blocking of rendering while decoding happens, while often quite small, _can_ be measured — even if it is difficult to observe with the human eye.

Reviewer: Can you add a reference to the "See also" section (can't suggest in this PR as not edited code):

```md
- [What does the image decoding attribute actually do?](https://www.tunetheweb.com/blog/what-does-the-image-decoding-attribute-actually-do/) on tunetheweb.com (2023)
```

Author: I think in "See also" works fine in the SVG `decoding` attribute page, but in the case of the HTML `<img>` element page, most of it is not about `decoding`. Therefore in that case I've put the link to your article in the `decoding` text.
